We need to give each grade a unique ID field.
Right now we're updating each grade based on the student's name.
What if I want to add another grade for Harry?
We'll say, Harry.
We'll give him a C-plus and Quidditch.
Instead of adding another grade, it updates his grade and potions to a grade in Quidditch.
Updating a grade based on a name is clearly not a good idea because it's this piece of logic right here
that's flawed.
So in this lesson, you will update grades based on a unique ID field.
That being said, we do not need the complete constructor right now so we can get rid of it to avoid
confusion.
And now what I'm going to do is add an ID field, private string ID.
Every time a new grade object is created, we're going to set the ID field equal to a random unique
identifier.
So we'll say this dot ID is equal to a universal unique identifier.
A random universal unique identifier to string.
Random UUID uses a complex algorithm to create a universally unique identifier and then to string returns
it as a string.
Ultimately, this ensures that the ID field of every grade object that gets created remains unique.
Okay.
And now, because this field is private, we can't forget to give it a getter and setter.
Java code.
Generators.
Getters and setters.
And now when the user presses the update button, the parameter that they should pass back is the ID.
ID is equal to gray dot ID.
The Get request is going to carry an ID field that matches a great object.
So it follows that the get mapping method should expect an ID, not a name.
It's going to try to retrieve a grade object based on an ID not name.
Do the same thing inside submit form.
Dot get id.
String ID here.
We're going to get the idea of every student grade and we're going to check if it equals the ID that's
being passed in.
If that's the case, return it's index.
Otherwise return -1000 and that's really it.
We're going to rerun our application.
Well, it already rerun.
Let's populate our table with data.
We'll say Harry C minus potions, creating a new grade.
And now if you press update.
It makes a request to local host 8080 while carrying the object ID and each input in the field binds
to one of the objects.
Fields.
Perfect.
But there is an issue.
Upon form submission.
Springwood creates an empty grade object using your empty constructor.
The empty constructor is going to generate a new ID for this great object.
So the data from the Post request updates the three other fields.
But the new ID doesn't match what's inside the data store.
There's a very simple workaround.
What you're going to have to do is add another input to the form, and this input is going to bind to
the grade ID field.
You can remove everything else.
And so now the Post request is going to send back four fields.
So even if the empty constructor generates a new ID for this grade, the data from the post request
is going to re update all four fields.
So if you were to try it now.
You know what?
Let's rerun the application so that we can start from a clean slate.
We'll say a local host.
80, 80.
Harry.
A-minus.
Charms.
Remember this ID?
We'll press submit.
And if you press update.
Notice that the IDs are consistent.
Perfect.
I'll update his grade to C-minus and the update works.
The Handler method was able to match the object's ID to one of the objects in the array list.
It updates the array list and finally takes care of the rest.
Now going back to local host 8080.
The form containing four inputs sends back four fields in the post request.
Spring Boot creates an empty grade object using your empty constructor, which automatically generates
a new ID, but as post requests data as populating the object's fields.
It also overrides the ID field with the correct value.
But having an ID input is really ugly and the user shouldn't be allowed to access it.
You can hide an HTML element using type equals hidden.
Equals hidden.
And everything should still work.
We'll add a new grade for her mighty.
Score a plus arithmetic, press submit.
And now I'm going to go back and update Harry's grade to D.
Plus, everything works perfectly if I try to give Harry a grade in Quidditch.
Harry A-plus.
Quidditch.
Finally the bug is gone.
The name field has no association with updates.
So to recap in this lesson, you updated a grade based on its ID.